www/content/resources/resource-agenticai-texts.md, before:

---
draft: false
title: Agentic AI Related Texts
weight: 5
description: Below are various texts with introductions to Agentic AI
---
A good textbook on Agentic AI is listed below together with various introductory texts, business reviews and collections of example code for Agentic AI applications.
<!-- more -->


**Textbook:**
Michael Albada, **Building Applications with AI Agents**, , 1st ed., Published by O’Reilly Media, Inc., ISBN-13 978-1098176495. <br />
This book is available in print and digital on O’Reilly Media.<br />
[GSU Library Link](https://go.oreilly.com/georgia-state-university/library/view/building-applications-with/9781098176495/) 


**Introductions and Reviews:**
1. Lekha Priya, **Introduction to Agentic AI and Its Design Patterns**. <br />
[Link](https://lekha-bhan88.medium.com/introduction-to-agentic-ai-and-its-design-patterns-af8b7b3ef738)
 
2. Edwin Lisowski, **AI Agents vs Agentic AI: What’s the Difference and Why Does It Matter?** <br />
[Link](https://medium.com/@elisowski/ai-agents-vs-agentic-ai-whats-the-difference-and-why-does-it-matter-03159ee8c2b4)

3. Yugank Aman, **Top Agentic AI Design Patterns**. <br />
[Link](https://medium.com/@yugank.aman/top-agentic-ai-design-patterns-for-architecting-ai-systems-397798b44d5c)
 
4. Luís Roque, **Agentic AI: Building Autonomous Systems from Scratch**. <br />
[Link](https://towardsdatascience.com/agentic-ai-building-autonomous-systems-from-scratch-8f80b07229ea/)

5. Ali Hamza, **How to Build Agentic AI Systems from Scratch?** <br />
[Link](https://medium.com/@ali_hamza/how-to-build-agentic-ai-systems-from-scratch-22c33999df91)

6. Devansh, **Why AI Agents are Good Software - Why (well designed) Agentic Systems Work as Well as they do**. <br />[Link](https://machine-learning-made-simple.medium.com/why-ai-agents-are-good-software-0fc97b7a4d25)


**Business Reviews:**
1. Shomit Ghose, **The Next “Next Big Thing”: Agentic AI’s Opportunities and Risks**. UC Berkeley SCET. Dec 2024. <br />
[Link](https://scet.berkeley.edu/the-next-next-big-thing-agentic-ais-opportunities-and-risks/)

2. Mark Purdy, **What Is Agentic AI, and How Will It Change Work?** Harvard Business Review. Dec 2024.<br />
[Link](https://hbr.org/2024/12/what-is-agentic-ai-and-how-will-it-change-work)
 
3. Deloitte, **Now devcides next: Deloitte’s State of Generative AI in the Enterprise Quarter four report**. Jan 2025. <br />
[Link](https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/us/Documents/consulting/us-state-of-gen-ai-q4.pdf)


**Github sites for Agentic AI examples:**
1. Github: **The Hugging Face Agents Course**. <br />
[Link](https://github.com/huggingface/agents-course)

2. Github: **AI Agents for Beginners - A Course**. <br />
[Link](https://github.com/microsoft/ai-agents-for-beginners)

3. Github: **Learn Agentic AI**. Panaversity Certified Agentic and Robotic AI Engineer. <br />
[Link](https://github.com/panaversity/learn-agentic-ai)


**General collection of repositories on Github:**
**agentic-ai** <br />
[Link](https://github.com/topics/agentic-ai)

Commit message:

chore: Add agentic RAG example, update resources page

www/content/resources/resource-agenticai-texts.md, after:

---
draft: false
title: Agentic AI Related Texts
weight: 5
description: Below are various texts with introductions to Agentic AI
---
A good textbook on Agentic AI is listed below together with various introductory texts, business reviews and collections of example code for Agentic AI applications.
<!-- more -->


**Textbook:**
Michael Albada, **Building Applications with AI Agents**, , 1st ed., Published by O’Reilly Media, Inc., ISBN-13 978-1098176495. <br />
This book is available in print and digital on O’Reilly Media.<br />
[GSU Library Link](https://go.oreilly.com/georgia-state-university/library/view/building-applications-with/9781098176495/) 


**Introductions and Reviews:**
1. Lekha Priya, **Introduction to Agentic AI and Its Design Patterns**. <br />
[Link](https://lekha-bhan88.medium.com/introduction-to-agentic-ai-and-its-design-patterns-af8b7b3ef738)
 
2. Edwin Lisowski, **AI Agents vs Agentic AI: What’s the Difference and Why Does It Matter?** <br />
[Link](https://medium.com/@elisowski/ai-agents-vs-agentic-ai-whats-the-difference-and-why-does-it-matter-03159ee8c2b4)

3. Yugank Aman, **Top Agentic AI Design Patterns**. <br />
[Link](https://medium.com/@yugank.aman/top-agentic-ai-design-patterns-for-architecting-ai-systems-397798b44d5c)
 
4. Luís Roque, **Agentic AI: Building Autonomous Systems from Scratch**. <br />
[Link](https://towardsdatascience.com/agentic-ai-building-autonomous-systems-from-scratch-8f80b07229ea/)

5. Ali Hamza, **How to Build Agentic AI Systems from Scratch?** <br />
[Link](https://medium.com/@ali_hamza/how-to-build-agentic-ai-systems-from-scratch-22c33999df91)

6. Devansh, **Why AI Agents are Good Software - Why (well designed) Agentic Systems Work as Well as they do**. <br />[Link](https://machine-learning-made-simple.medium.com/why-ai-agents-are-good-software-0fc97b7a4d25)


**Business Reviews:**
1. Shomit Ghose, **The Next “Next Big Thing”: Agentic AI’s Opportunities and Risks**. UC Berkeley SCET. Dec 2024. <br />
[Link](https://scet.berkeley.edu/the-next-next-big-thing-agentic-ais-opportunities-and-risks/)

2. Mark Purdy, **What Is Agentic AI, and How Will It Change Work?** Harvard Business Review. Dec 2024.<br />
[Link](https://hbr.org/2024/12/what-is-agentic-ai-and-how-will-it-change-work)
 
3. Deloitte, **Now decides next: Deloitte’s State of Generative AI in the Enterprise Quarter four report**. Jan 2025. <br />
[Link](https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/us/Documents/consulting/us-state-of-gen-ai-q4.pdf)


**Agentic AI code example:**
Bhavishya Pandit, **Agentic RAG: Step-by-Step Tutorial With Demo Project**. <br /> 
[Link](https://www.datacamp.com/tutorial/agentic-rag-tutorial)


**Github sites for Agentic AI code examples:**
1. Github: **The Hugging Face Agents Course**. <br />
[Link](https://github.com/huggingface/agents-course)

2. Github: **AI Agents for Beginners - A Course**. <br />
[Link](https://github.com/microsoft/ai-agents-for-beginners)

3. Github: **Learn Agentic AI**. Panaversity Certified Agentic and Robotic AI Engineer. <br />
[Link](https://github.com/panaversity/learn-agentic-ai)


**General collection of repositories on Github:**
**agentic-ai** <br />
[Link](https://github.com/topics/agentic-ai)
